In the last couple of lectures we've talked
about describing the position and the orientation
of objects in the world.
We started off talking about position and
orientation in two-dimensional space, that's
the easiest example to start with, and then
we talked about position and orientation in
three-dimensional space. This combination
of position; where something is, and orientation;
that's how its oriented in space, combined
together we call that the pose of an object,
and pose is really really important in robotics.
So we talk about how we can describe the pose
of a robot somewhere. For instance, on the
table—that's a two dimensional example.
Or how we describe the pose of an object in
three-dimensional space.
Now while pose is really very useful we also want to talk about how pose changes as a function of time.
Consider the problem with the robot moving
from here to there. It's going to have to
follow some kind of path, so its pose will
change as a function of time and that leads
to two very important concepts that we refer
to as a path and a trajectory. And what we
want to be able to do is to describe how the pose changes smoothly and elegantly as a function of time.
So here for instance is a small example how
the pose of an object can vary as a function
of time. And we see here in this three-dimensional
co-ordinate frame, its position is changing
and its orientation is changing very very
smoothly. And we want to be able to apply
these kinds of techniques to general problems
in robotics.